Assignment-1

1. Implement a user registration system using Node.js, MongoDB, and MySQL, including basic validation.

SETPS TO DO THIS TAKS:

1. Set up your development environment:

2. Install Node.js and npm (Node Package Manager) on your machine.
   Install MongoDB and MySQL and set up the database connections.
   Create a new Node.js project:

3. Open your command prompt or terminal and navigate to the desired directory.
   Run the command" npm init" to initialize a new Node.js project.
   Follow the prompts to provide project details and generate a package.json file.
   Install required dependencies:

4. Install the MongoDB and MySQL drivers for Node.js using the following commands:
   Copy code
   "npm install mongodb"
   "npm install mysql"
   Set up the database connections:

5. Create a connection to MongoDB using the MongoDB driver and establish a connection to your MongoDB database.
   Create a connection to MySQL using the MySQL driver and establish a connection to your MySQL database.
   Create a registration form:

6. Design a form in HTML with fields for username, email, password, and any additional required information.
   Handle the form submission using a POST request to a specified route in your Node.js application.
   Implement basic validation:

7. Validate the submitted form data on the server-side to ensure the required fields are filled, the email is valid, and the password meets any specified criteria.
   Return appropriate error messages if the validation fails, or proceed with user registration if the validation passes.
   Insert user data into the databases:

8. Generate a unique user ID for the new user.
   Insert the user data, including the ID, username, email, and password (preferably hashed and salted), into both the MongoDB and MySQL databases.
   Handle registration success and failure:

9. If the user registration is successful, redirect the user to a success page or send a success response.
   If the user registration fails due to errors or validation issues, provide appropriate error messages to the user.
   Test the user registration system:

10. Start your Node.js server and navigate to the registration form in a web browser.
    Fill in the form with valid or invalid data to test the validation and registration processes.
    Verify that the user data is stored correctly in both the MongoDB and MySQL databases.
    Secure the system:

11. Consider implementing additional security measures, such as password hashing, salting, and encryption, to protect user information.
    Implement measures to prevent common security vulnerabilities, such as SQL injection and cross-site scripting (XSS) attacks.
